# ChatGPT on Graphics

### Name0: Max Schneider
### Name1: Jeffrey Jiang

---

## Background
Your goal is to get ChatGPT to create a program that meets all the requirements of our graphics engine up to the latest assignment. This includes:
* Drawing lines
* Drawing circles, and Bezier and Hermite curves.
* Maintining an edge list of points.
* Being able to perform & potentially combine transformations, rotations and dilations.
* Being able to save and display the images.
* Being able to correctly read in files using the graphics scripting language we've developed.

Some Notes:
* Please stick to C, Python or Java as the language of choice.
* Don't let ChatGPT use an existing graphics engine, it's got to work as hard as you have!
* If the program has multiple files, feel free to get ChatGPT to create a makefile for you.
* If you get it to create a useable grpahics engine, see if it can generate an image that shows off its capabilities.



## Task 0: Setup
Only one member of your group needs to have an account to use ChatGPT, if someone has one already, go ahead and use that. If not, pick one person to sign up, the simplest method to sign up would be to authenticate with google and use your stuy.edu email address. Authentication will require recieving a text message, so pick someone that has easy access to their phone.

You can find ChatGPT here: <https://chat.openai.com/chat>

## Task 1: The First Program
### Your Prompt
Provide below the first description you gave ChatGPT:

Can you write me a graphics engine in java? It needs to be able to make lines, circles, bezier curves, hermite curves. It should maintain a 4xn array of points with each pair representing a edge. It should also be able to do rotations, translations, and dilations. Lastly, it should be able to save images as a ppm.

### The Code
Crate a folder in this repository called __0-program__ containing all the relevant code initially created by ChatGPT.

### Your Analysis
Answer the Following Questions after seeing the initial program.

#### Question 0
Overall, how well did ChatGPT do?

It did incredibly well. It was able to implement many of the requested features. In addition, it provided code to test its program as well.

#### Question 1
What did ChatGPT get right?

ChatGPT was able to implement the Bresenham’s line algorithm, circle, the bezier curve, and the hermite curve. It is able to save the image as a ppm as well.

#### Question 2
What did ChatGPT get wrong?

ChatGPT made some errors with imports and redefining a method twice. It has also incorrectly called some methods that it has written. Additionally, it implemented the transformations using just algebra instead of linear algebra. As a result, the graphics engine was strictly 2-dimensional. Additionally, we are unsure if the line algorithm that ChatGPT implemented is correct as it does look different from our own code.

#### Question 3:
How much of the code generated by ChatGPT do you understand?

We understood some of the code. There were instances where ChatGPT implemented an algorithm that we did not recognize such as the scanline rendering. It also implemented the transformations using algebra instead of linear algebra with matrices. Overall, its code was readable and it even included some comments. 

#### Question 4:
How does ChatGPT's approach differe from yours?

The ChatGPT's approach differs a bit in that it implements the transformations without matrices. In addition, the initial graphics engine is only in 2D instead of our 3D engine. This means that there is no edge list implementation and it does not use a homogeneous coordinate system to implement many features.

## Task 2: Refinement
if possible, run the code made by ChatGPT. Based on your answers the questions above, and your observations about how the program runs, ask ChatGPT to improve the code. ChatGPT will generally understand that you are asking to make changes to your inital prompt, so you don't need to restate the enire problem, instead, ask for specific changes or improvements.

Provide each prompt you gave ChatGPT bellow. Give each prompt a header like this :`#### Prompt X` where X is a counter starting at 1.

## Task 3: The Final Program
Include the final program created by ChatGPT in this repository in a folder called __1-program__.



